= Deliverables =

== Skeleton implementation ==

=== Initial version (0.5) ===

Features:
* The user will be able to log in to the system.
* The user will be able to upload new model revisions.
* The user will be able to securely access the latest revision of a model he/she has access to.
* The user will be able to download the latest revision of a model.
* The user interface will have a basic visualisation of the model and its metadata (can be inspired by the "model" tab in the BioModels V3 software).

Infrastructure:
* user database
* secured versioned storage infrastructure
* modular design
* module for handling SBML files


=== Basic version (1.0) ===

Features:
* The user interface will include version control elements, such that the user has access to all his model revisions.
* A new user will be able to register himself.
* A user will be able to delete a model revision.
* The user interface will have an improved visualisation of a model (remaining tabs, c.f. current BioModels V3 software).
* A basic web service will enable programmatic, secure access to models.

Infrastructure
* UI for accessing whole revisions
* Web Services

== Features for enhancements ==

=== Ontologies ===

* The user will be ablw to browse the latest model revisions in the GO tree.
* The web service will be improved to support querying annotations from external databases.

=== Data exchange ===

* Submitted models will automatically be converted to the latest SBML.
* The user will be able to convert a model to other formats.
* The use will be able to simulate models.
* The user will be able to grant shared read/create revision access to models for collaborating users.

=== Search ===

* The user will be able to rank search results by relevance.
* The web service will be improved to reflect this.

=== Curation ===

* The system will be made configurable for curation and for notification events.
* A user will be able to edit annotations.
* A user will be able to keep revisions private if the model is released to the public.
* A reviewer will be able to be granted time-limited access to some models.
* A curator will be able to publish models.
* A curator will be able to manage releases of models.

=== Miscellaneous ===

* Other model databases can be referenced from the database and indicated in the user interface.
* There will be spam protection such that automatic user registration is not (easily) possible.
